INTRODUCTION
Middle-earth is the setting of J.R.R. Tolkien's master works of fantasy: The Hobbit, The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, The Return of the King, and others. Riddle of the Ring is a game which recreates much of the action in his famous trilogy, The Lord of the Rings. Players will enjoy many of the same adventures experienced by the original characters. Players do not have to be familiar with Tolkien's works or Middle-earth in order to play and enjoy Riddle of the Ring.
In the Lord of the Rings, the Dark Lord (Sauron of Mordor) has discovered that his long lost Ring of power has been found by something called "A Hobbit" and taken to a place called "The Shire". With The Ring back under his control, the evil Sauron can easily destroy the powers of good and rule Middle-earth. He sends his emissaries, the Black Riders (also known as Ringwraiths or Nazg没l), to find The Ring and bring it to him at his citadel, the Tower of Barad-d没r.
At about the same time, the good Wizard known as Gandalf learns of the significance of The Ring. Under his direction and influence, a group of noble characters join together as "The Fellowship" to help a Hobbit (called Frodo) take The Ring to the fires at the Cracks of Doom, where it was created. Only there, in all of Middle-earth, can it be destroyed.
Thus, the story becomes a struggle between the forces of evil which are trying to get The Ring to Sauron at Barad- d没r, and the forces of good which are trying to destroy The Ring at the Cracks of Doom. The Game, Riddle of the Ring, starts at this point in the story. Each player chooses to be one of the Hobbits or one of the Black Riders. During the course of play, each player tries to obtain The Ring (The Ring card) and take it to his appropriate objective space: the Cracks of Doom or Barad-d没r.
The rules are divided into 3 parts: the Basic Game, the Advanced Game, and the Optional Rules. Everyone should play the Basic Game first, and then move on the Advanced Game when the Basic Game is mastered. The Optional Rules are provided to add more variety and detail to the Basic and Advanced Games.
