B-12 THE HALLS OF MANDOS (THE OTHER WORLD)
The "Halls of Mandos" (the Other World) space and The "Place of Returning" space (the space with two columns) are not considered part of the board. A player in the Halls of Mandos is beyond the reach of the other players. Players cannot move into either of these spaces and they cannot have Friendly Exchanges and Power Plays with those in The Halls of Mandos. The Halls of Mandos rules are special.
ENTERING THE HALLS OF MANDOS
A player goes to The Halls of Mandos if any of the following two things occur:
- Another player catches him with over 10 cards (see Section B-7).
- He loses a Battle (see Section B-11).
The player's marker is placed in The Halls of Mandos space when he goes to The Halls. The player keeps the cards he has left in his hand, up to 10 (discarding any excess, his choice).
ACTIVITY IN THE HALLS
While in The Halls of Mandos, roll the die when your turn comes around. Pick up 1 card from the deck each turn you end in The Halls of Mandos, but do not discard after picking up unless you have over 10 cards.
While in The Halls of Mandos, you may not have a Friendly Exchange or make a Power Play. You may not use cards in your hand, (except a Wizard) to escape (see the Wizard cards: Gandalf, Sauron, Galadriel or The Balrog). Cards such as Gimli or Ugluk may not be used to re-roll the die.
LEAVING THE HALLS OF MANDOS
You must leave The Halls of Mandos at the beginning of your fourth turn in The Halls of Mandos, after a maximum stay of 3 turns.
You may escape from The Halls of Mandos if your die roll result at the start of your turn is a 6 or by playing the proper Wizard card (Gandalf, Sauron, Galadriel, or The Balrog) after you roll the die.
When leaving or escaping from The Halls of Mandos, place your marker on any space within 6 spaces of the Place of Returning space (the space with a picture of two columns in the Mountains near the center of the board). After placing your marker, roll the die and take a normal turn, even if you have already rolled the die in The Halls of Mandos earlier during your turn. Until you roll the die to start a regular turn do not use any cards, and do not have a Friendly Exchange until you have moved.
