B-2 STARTING THE GAME
To begin the game, each player chooses to be a particular Hobbit or Black Rider. He selects the marker which represents the Hobbit or Black Rider he wants to be:
There does not have to be an equal number of Hobbits and Black Riders in a game, but there cannot be more than 4 Hobbits or more than 4 Black Riders. If more than one player chooses the same Hobbit or Black Rider, each player involved rolls a die; the player with the higher roll gets his choice (re-roll ties).
Each player competes with all the other players to win.
Next, all the cards are shuffled (remove the 6 blank cards) and each player is dealt two cards to start his hand. The remaining cards are placed face-down (to the side of the board) to form a pick-up stack called the "deck". Players will pick up more cards from the deck as they play the game. Cards can be used to help a player move on the board, pick up more cards on a later turn, or to interact with the other players.
Each player rolls the die to see who has the first turn. The player whose roll was the highest has the first turn. If several players tie for the high roll, they re-roll until one player has the highest roll. Play proceeds in a clockwise direction; that is, the player to the left of the first player has the second turn, the player to his left has the third turn, etc. This order of turns continues until a player wins the game (see Section B-3).
As each player starts his first turn, his marker is placed on The Shire space (the space with the black background in the upper left corner of the board).
SUGGESTIONS ON HOW TO PLAY
To get started, players should move their markers to cities on the board so they can pick up cards. Players should try to pick up cards every turn, even if it may temporarily take them away from the direction they would prefer to go. Hobbits will be safer on Good Cities and Black Riders will be safer on Evil cities in case of battle, but any player may visit any city (and pick up cards there).
Sooner or later, one player will pick up The Ring card. Other players may use cards in their hands to discover who has The Ring and to attempt to take it from him.
As players pick up cards and build their hands, they should work their way towards The Cracks of Doom (and Barad-dûr) and use cards according to their instructions. Cards help players move on the board and gain advantages over other players. For example, a player with Gollum can take The Ring from any player. Having the character card of another player gives you an advantage over him. You can give him his card, see his entire hand, and take the card of your choice from his hand. These are just a few examples.
