B-4 WHAT TO DO DURING A TURN
Each player has a turn in which he moves his marker, uses his cards, and gains new cards. A summary of the activities which a player must and may perform during his turn is included below and on the board in the section titled "Play During Your Turn".
1) You must roll the die to determine your base movement.
2) Before you move, you may make one (or two) of your two power plays allowed this turn (see Section B-10).
3) You may win the game by showing The Ring card while your marker is on The Cracks of Doom (for Hobbits) or Barad-dûr (for Black Riders), if you ended your previous turn there (see Section B-3).
4) You must move your marker, using your die roll and/or any applicable movement cards you wish to play (see Section B-5).
5) When you stop, you must perform a "Friendly Exchange" with each player whose marker is in or adjacent to the same space as your marker (see Section B-9).
6) After you move, you may make one (or two) of your two power plays allowed this turn (see Section B-10).
7) You may repeat steps 4, 5, and 6 until you have used your die roll and all applicable movement cards that you wish to play.
8) You may pick up three cards from the deck if you are in a city space (see Section B-8) OR you may use one character card from your hand to pick up cards from the deck (see Section B-8).
9) If you picked up any cards from the deck, you must discard one card (see Section B-8).
10) Your turn ends, and the turn of the player to your left begins.
A player is only required to do two things during any turn: (1) move his marker at least 1 space on the board and (2) have a Friendly Exchange when he stops on, or beside, the space occupied by another player. In a Friendly Exchange each player draws one card at random from the other's hand.
During his turn, a player has many options available. He may use any number of cards to help move his marker, and he may have 1 or 2 Power Plays before and/or after moving. Power Plays include the following activities:
- Using a card to see someone's hand.
- Using a Riddle card.
- Using a card to take a card from someone's
hand.
- Having a Battle (see Section B-11).
NOTE: The map board lists "Using the Gollum card" as one of the four power plays. This should read "Using a card to take a card from someone's hand"; this includes playing any of the following cards: Gollum, Bilbo, Shelob, any Hobbit card and any Black Rider card.
Once a player picks up cards from the deck, his turn is over. He must immediately discard 1 card from his hand and pass the die to the next player. If a player is unable to pick up cards on a particular turn, he simply passes the die to the next player after doing everything else he chooses to do. All these things are described in more detail in the rest of this booklet.
Different players will favor different strategies and styles of play, making the game as simple or as complex as they choose. Some will seek active interactions with other players, while others will try to keep at a safe distance from the action and accumulate cards. New players are encouraged to try different strategies so they can learn which work best in each situation.
