B-6 THE SPACES ON THE BOARD
The Riddle of the Ring board is made up of a variety of spaces. These types of spaces include open country, roads, forests, thickets, mountains, hills, rivers, oceans, lakes, swamps, and cities.
Players will find it easy to move on some of these spaces and difficult to move on others. For example, roads are easy to travel on, while mountains and forests are more difficult. Refer to the Board to identify these spaces.
The Key to the Board also summarizes how to move on the different kinds of spaces. For more comprehensive instruction, refer to the next two pages of this booklet.
NOTE: The symbols indicating Gollum spaces, Clairvoyance spaces, and Secret spaces (see Key to the Board) are not used in the Basic Game. Simply ignore them and use the spaces as if the symbols were not there. After becoming familiar with the Basic Game, players may want to play the Advanced Game in which these symbols are used.
MOVING ON THE DIFFERENT SPACES
Open Country: In the open country, players move normally as indicated in
Section B-5.
Forests & Thickets: When a player moves into any forest or thicket space, he must stop if he does not have a Cloak card. He must stop on the first forest or thicket space he enters and may not move again until his next turn, no matter what he rolled on the die. Even if he has a Horse, Eagles or Flying Beasts card, he cannot leave that space during that turn without a Cloak. Thus without a Cloak card, a marker may only be moved one space per turn through forest and thicket spaces.
With a Cloak card, a player does not have to stop. He may use the Cloak to move in forests and thickets as if in Open Country. (See Cloak card, Section B-8)
Mountains & Hills: When a player moves into any mountain or hill space, he must stop if he does not have a Rope card. He must stop on the first mountain or hill space he enters and may not move again until his next turn, no matter what he rolled on the die. Even if he has a Horse, Eagles or Flying Beasts card, he cannot leave that space during that turn without a Rope. Thus without a Rope card, a marker may only be moved one space per turn through mountain or hill spaces.
With a Rope card, a player does not have to stop. He may use the Rope to move in Mountains and hills as in Open Country. (See Rope card, Section B-8)
Roads: For every space that a marker would normally move (see Section B-5), it may move 1 or 2 spaces along a road. To move 2 spaces when one would normally be moved, the marker must be on a road that connects both spaces to be moved into. Basically, on a road a marker may move twice as far as it normally would. Road travel is fast.
Treat roads through forests & thickets and mountains & hills like roads through open country. Use road travel rules given above. You do not need a Rope or Cloak. Ropes and cloaks already in play remain in play as long as the marker ends movement in the appropriate terrain or on a road through such terrain.
Rivers, Bridges, & Fords (Moving across Rivers): To move across a river, a player must use a Boat card, or he must cross at a bridge or a ford. Otherwise, he cannot cross. At a bridge or ford, he simply ignores the river and moves across, using the open country or road rules that apply.
With a Boat card, a player may cross a river at any point to an adjacent space on the other side. This counts as moving one space. If he then enters a forest or mountain space, he must follow the forest or mountain rules that apply.
Rivers (Moving on Rivers): To move on a river, a player must use a Boat card. A marker with a Boat card may move on a river by moving from river dot to river dot. River dots are marked on the board as small rock symbols in the rivers and they are treated as separate water spaces. Once on a river, moving from one river dot to the next counts as moving one space. A Horse card may not be used to move on a river. Traveling on rivers is fast.
To enter a river, a marker moves to a river dot from one of the three spaces which come together at that river dot. To exit a river, a marker moves from river dot to one of the three spaces which come together at that river dot. Entering or exiting a river dot counts as moving one space.
When a player is using a Boat card to move from one river dot to the next in a river through forests & thickets or mountains & hills, he does not need a Cloak or Rope card.
Cities at the Beginning of a River: Spaces which contain a city at the beginning of a river (Rivendell, Moria, Orthanc, Fangorn, Gundabad, Rilennyn, Ceber Faniun, and Lorien) are special. They are both land spaces and river dots at the same time. Players do not need a Boat card to stop on them. A player landing on such a space follows the rules for open country, roads, forests or mountains that apply.
With a Boat card, a player on such a space is both on the city and already on the river dot. He may follow the rules for moving in rivers or on land as he chooses.
Water Spaces (Ocean, Lakes, and Swamps): To move into any ocean, lake, or swamp space (water spaces), a player must have a Boat card. Without a Boat card, no player may enter any water space. Moving from a land space to an adjacent water space counts as moving one space. Moving from a water space to an adjacent land spacecountsasmovingonespace. AHorsecardmaynotbeused to move on a water space.
For every space that a marker would normally move (see Section B-5), it may move 1 or 2 spaces in water spaces. To move 2 spaces when one would normally be moved, the marker must be on a water space and both spaces to be moved into must be water spaces. Basically, on water spaces a marker may move twice as far as it normally would. Water travel is fast.
Moving on Water Spaces and Rivers: A player may use the same Boat card to move from water spaces to river dots, and vice-versa. Entering or exiting the river dot counts as moving one space.
Flying (Eagles & Flying Beasts): Eagles and Flying Beasts cards are very powerful; they allow players to move to any space on the board at anydistance. Playersmayflyoveranyspaces,includingforests& thickets, mountains & hills, and water.
Flying (to and from special terrain): Players may fly out of forests & thickets, mountains & hills, or water spaces to any space. When a player flies to a forest & thickets or mountain & hills space, he must stop on that space, and may not move again during that turn without a Cloak or Rope card (see forest & mountain rules). To land on a water space, a Boat card is needed.
Moving with Tom Bombadil: Tom Bombadil allows a player to pick up his marker and place it on any space within 6 spaces of his position. As with flying, he may move over forests & thickets , mountains & hills, or water, but to land on a water space, a boat is also needed.
