B-7 USING THE CARDS
The cards in Riddle of the Ring are very important. Each player keeps his cards in his "hand", hidden from the other players. The cards available to be picked up by the players during play are kept in the stack of cards called the "deck". Discarded cards are placed on the "discard pile". If all of the cards are picked up from the deck, shuffle the discard pile and make it the new "deck".
PICKING UP CARDS
Picking up cards from the deck ends a player's turn. Because of this, players must do all their moving and have all their activities with other players before picking up any cards from the deck for that turn. They will be unable to use any cards they pick up until their next turns.
There are only 2 ways to pick up cards from the deck:
(1) When a player ends his turn on a city, he may pick up 3 cards.
OR
(2) When a player ends his turn, he may use one character card (such as Tom Bombadil or Saruman) to pick up cards from the deck. Each of these cards will say who may use the card and how many cards to pick up. Such a character card may be used from any space on the board.
Players may use only 1 city or 1 character card per turn to pick up cards from the deck - never a city plus a card or more than 1 card.
A player does not necessarily get to pick up cards at the end of every turn. For example, if he did not end his turn on a city or use a character card at the end of his turn, he cannot pick up any cards. A player who is unable or chooses not to pick up cards ends his turn by passing the die
to the next player, after do during his turn.
PICKING UP CARDS
City spaces are shown
Good City: Evil City: Neutral City:
doing everything else he chooses to
FROM CITY SPACES
on the board as follows:
Seven Gold Stars A Red Lidless Eye A Brown Triangle
Any player may use any city to pick up 3 cards (Good and Evil values are for battles). A player may not go back and forth between two Cities picking up cards. He must pick up cards from at least 2 other Cities before returning to pick up again from a City he has already used.
DISCARDING CARDS
Every time a player picks up any cards from the deck, he must discard 1 card from his hand. His hand includes the cards just picked up. If he uses a card to pickup from the deck, he must still discard 1 card from his hand in addition to the card used. After picking up from the deck and making the required discard, a player's turn is over. He should pass the die to the next player.
All discards are placed face up in the discard pile, one at a time, for all players to see. When all cards in the deck are gone, shuffle the discard pile and place it face down to the table to become the new deck. Then start a new discard pile. Cards are kept in continuous play. Players should not look through the discards - only the top card should show.
HOLDING CARDS
Cards picked up from the deck and cards taken from other players are kept in a player's hand above the table with only the backs showing.
A player may hold up to 10 cards in his hand at the end of histurn. Sometimeshemaypickupcardswhichwillmake his hand total more than 10 cards. If he has over 10 cards, he must discard any cards he chooses so that he will be left with exactly 10 cards at the end of his turn.
If another player catches a player with over 10 cards after his turn has ended, that player goes immediately to the Halls of Mandos (see Section B-12). Players always have the right to count the cards in another player's hand. Cards taken after an incorrect Riddle do not count against the 10 card limit until the end of the player's next turn.
NOTE: No player may give others information about another player's hand. Table talk is unfair and may unduly prolong the game.
