B-8 HOW TO USE THE CARDS
Directions on how to use each card are written on the face of the card. Cards may be used to:
 Help move a marker on the board - Interact with the other players
- Pick up cards from the deck
- Win the game
(see Sections B-5 and B-6) (see Sections B-9 and B-10) (see Section B-7)
(see Section B-3)
A player may use cards in his hand at any time during his turn. He may use cards before or after moving his marker. When a player uses a card, he should place it face up on the table before him and read the use of the card aloud. If he is using it to have an activity with a particular player, he should name that player. No card should be placed face up on the table unless it is used immediately.
Many cards have only one use, but some cards have more than one use. Each card tells what it is used for and who may use it. The card also tells what to do with the card after each use:
- If "Retain" is indicated, the player must return the card to his hand for future use.
- If "Discard" is indicated, the player must place the card face up on the Discard Stack, out of play.
USING CLOAK, ROPE, AND BOAT CARDS
Cloak, Rope and Boat cards remain face up on the table if the player using them ends his turn on a forest & thicket, mountain & hills, or water space (ocean, lakes & swamps) respectively. Once on the table, these cards are never considered part of a player's hand. The player may use the same card over and over again as long as he ends each turn on the appropriate type of space. If he is not on the proper type of space at the end of his turn, the Rope, Cloak, or Boat card is placed face up in the discard stack (see Section B-6).
OBTAINING CARDS FROM OTHER PLAYERS
There are only 2 ways to get cards from another player. A player may get a card from, or lose a card to, another player through either a Friendly Exchange (see Section B-9) or a Power Play (see Section B-10). These are also the only two ways in which one player may engage in an activity with another player.
